1 Different Types of Errors in Java:

Syntax Error/Compile-Time Mistakes:
Refers to mistakes in the program's structure that violate the rules of the programming language.
Identified by the compiler during the compilation process.
Logical Error/Run-Time Mistakes:
Refers to mistakes in the program's logic or algorithm.
Identified by the JVM during the execution of the program.

2 What is an Exception in Java:

An exception in Java is an unexpected event or error that disrupts the normal flow of a program.
Exception handling is the mechanism to deal with these unexpected events gracefully.
Exceptions can occur at runtime and are categorized into checked exceptions (which must be handled) and unchecked exceptions (optional to handle).
3 How Can You Handle Exceptions in Java with an Example:

Exception handling in Java is done using the try, catch, and finally blocks.
Example:
try {
    // Code that may cause an exception
    int result = 10 / 0; // Division by zero will cause an ArithmeticException
} catch (ArithmeticException e) {
    // Handling the exception
    System.out.println("Error: Division by zero");
} finally {
    // Code that always executes, whether an exception occurs or not
    System.out.println("Finally block executed");
}

4 Why Do We Need Exception Handling in Java:

Exception handling is crucial for maintaining the smooth execution of a program.
It prevents the abrupt termination of a program due to unexpected errors.
Allows developers to identify, handle, and recover from exceptional situations, enhancing the reliability of the software.

5 Difference Between Exception and Error in Java:

Errors typically occur during the runtime and are more severe, often leading to the termination of the program (e.g., OutOfMemoryError).
Exceptions are events that occur during the execution of a program and can be handled to prevent the program from crashing (e.g., NullPointerException).

6. Name the different types of exceptions in Java.

Ans: Based on handling by JVM, there are typically two types of exceptions in Java:

Checked: Occur during the compilation. Here, the compiler checks whether the exception is handled and 
throws an error accordingly.

Unchecked: Occur during program execution. These are not detectable during the compilation process.


7. Can we just use try instead of finally and catch blocks? Give an example .

Ans: No, doing so will show a compilation error. Catch or finally block must always accompany try block. We 
can remove either finally block or catch block, but never both.